Let's open with prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, that we are all healthy and that we can all be here together. Thank you for the food that you've given to us. Place us now also with our spiritual food, Lord, that we will be nourished and grown up with your Word. As you feed us every day with your Word, Lord, we pray also that you teach us by your Spirit. May you be glorified in this time, and may Leolan also receive wisdom from you as we share together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our passage this evening is in 1 John chapter 1. 1 John chapter 1, verse 7 to 8. Let's read from verse 6. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. These verses. should be meditated on, like, let's say for a few months. Especially this whole book of John, right? First book of John. It's a tremendous book. It has tremendous wisdom, wisdom of God in it. But when you meditate on these verses, these three we just read, you feel like it seems to be pressing up against each other. The first one you read, it says, If we say we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. And then verse 8, If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The one says we're not walking in darkness, and the other one says we have sin. And it feels like if we're not going to be walking in darkness, surely it means we are not in sin. And then here, if we say we're not in sin, then, or at least have sin, then we are lying. And so obviously many brothers have meditated on this, trying to understand what is the Spirit saying? What is God really saying to us here? What is the real message then? And I think it's possible to perceive the wisdom of God in this passage if you actually have read most of the letters and even The Gospel of John. And since we have been in our devotions looking at that part of John, where he talks about the light that lighteth every man. He talks of at first as life. Life was with God, and then this life was manifested, and it is the light that lighteth every man. And then he starts talking about Jesus being that light. And so to walk in the light is to walk in the truth of what Jesus, who he is, what he has done, and what that means for all of us. It clearly means that there is a realization that God is right and we are wrong. To walk in the light is to walk in the truth of the Gospel. That means to believe that Jesus is really the express image of the Father. To believe that Jesus really comes from God, and that His perspective on life is really the correct perspective. How He sees things and how His disciples and apostles after Him spoke is really God's word, is really God's perspective. It's not just the opinion of men. It truly is God's life made manifest to us. And so this is the light. And to walk in the darkness is in fact to believe in lies. It is to be subject to lies. Now, these lies means that one justifies sin. One starts saying that it's not sin while it is in fact still sin. Remember, knowing the truth is to walk in the light if you only believe it. If you can know it and not believe it, then you are in darkness. Now, darkness is often therefore understood as something that tries to hide things. But in its greater essence, it denies who God is. It does not believe that God is truly love. It does not believe that God is truly righteous. It does not agree that God does all things perfect and well. It does not fully submit to the perfection of God. It has question marks about God. It says things like, Did God really say? And if that is true, then God is hiding something from us. You know, the enemy accused God of hiding things. The enemy accused God of cheating us. And that's the premise of sin. It brings a question upon God. Now, we might not admit it directly. You see, we won't—most people won't say they question God. What happens actually is that they have another God. So they have a God that is not the same as the God of Israel. And it's by means of denial of the true God. So the true God's ways and actions and decisions are written up in the Holy Scripture. And to disagree with this God inevitably causes people to have another or no God. Now obviously there is really no such thing as no God, because then you are your own God. But it comes to this place where people cannot reconcile the true God with the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. the God of Israel, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac. You see, this is the real challenge. Because when that God is without sin, and when that God is perfect, then you understand what He did very differently. Then you see His judgment about men and about women and about children and about unbelievers. You see it in a whole different light. You don't think He's partial. You don't think He's unjust. You don't think He's cruel. You see, you think very differently about God. And so to walk in the light is to have the right understanding of who God the Father is, an understanding which came to us by Jesus Christ. He is the one that reveals to us the Father. And His revelation is that there is no darkness in God at all. That means God is not hiding something. He's not into cheat us. He's not. He really, really is righteous. He really is love. He really is good. He really is kind. He really cares for each one of us. And this light is the testimony that Jesus gave of the Father, and that He gives to everyone that believes on Him, that the Spirit in us cries, Abba, Father. And so now, if we believe that God is right, then that shines light upon all facets of life. So it helps you understand what really makes a man a man. It helps you understand why a man should lay down his life. It helps you understand what it means to be alive. It tells you that true life doesn't come from seeking after the flesh and doing the things of the flesh. That life does not exist in the abundance of things you possess. That life is, in fact, to follow the Lord God who dwells inside of you. To walk with God is true life. So that means that as you have perceived this reality, this truth about God through the Son, you now start responding to that. This is what it means to walk in the light. For where the light is shining upon our lives and how it then shows us the place of a woman, the place of a man, the place of children. The place of our relationship towards authority. All these things and so much more. God is speaking, right, and this is bringing us an understanding. It's giving us light. And to follow this in faith is to hear the words of the Lord Jesus and do them. And this is a man who is building his house upon the rock. But now, as he's doing this, he's going to find in himself, inside of him, he's going to find contradictions. That means he's going to find feelings, and he's going to find struggles inside of himself that does not submit or does not want to submit to the truth. For example, he might get irritated with someone, while the Scripture teaches you to love. That means to be patient with someone. So you find this contradiction. And that is to have sin. So there is a difference between you giving in to sin and you being tempted by it. So being tempted is, in fact, what it means to, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. If you want to give us the impression that you have no struggle, then you are deceiving us, and you're deceiving yourself. Clearly, everybody is going to have a battle with their flesh. Everybody is going to have contradiction. When they should be kind, they're going to be tempted to be rude. When they should be patient, they're going to be tempted to be impatient. When they should be content, they're going to be tempted to covet. When they should be, and so we can go on and on. And so these are the sin that dwelleth within our members, that warreth against the law of our mind. It does not agree with God's law. It's feelings. We don't necessarily sit and program; they just come up. These things are the very things which the spirit wants to mortify, the deeds of the body. And so if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and the word is not in us. So a classic example is when two people have a conversation, and the one says to the other, Why are you getting worked up? And then the other says, I'm not worked up. You are worked up. You see, there is that if we say we have not sinned, we make Him a liar. Obviously, both are worked up. And both are lying. And it's because both are being tempted by their flesh to not believe God that says, you don't need to be worked up. You don't need to be angry. It's not going to change anything. Some people think anger can in fact do some good. But the fruits of the Spirit does not have anger in it. When it speaks of the fruits of the Spirit, it talks about things like patience and kindness and meekness and humility and self-control. Now I know people talk about righteous anger. And I would like to say that righteous anger belongs to those who do no longer sin. which is what we saw in our Lord Jesus. He never sinned, and he had righteous indignation for how they turned God's house into a house of thieves, of merchandise, instead of a house of prayer. So that means you get angry because people don't pray. You don't get angry because people did not pay. It's because they did not pray. And I always find it interesting how we kind of justify our anger, but it's not about the right thing. It's not really spiritual. It's still carnal. And it's this deception that is really the trouble we are facing, this self-justification. Instead of admitting, yes, I am angry, and I am wrong to be angry. In this previous example, let's say somebody says to you, You look like worked up again, and instead of saying, You know what? You're right. I'm busy getting worked up, and I'm wrong for getting worked up. So why what you did is truly painful to me. Me getting worked up is not really the right response. Now, look at that. There's the washing. There's the cleansing. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us. So instead of pretending in front of each other, we are willing to be open about our struggle. We're not trying to make it look like we've got it all together. We're willing to say, Yeah, I'm messing up. I'm failing here. And one of the brothers would say, We no longer need to cover anything up because Jesus paid for it all. He paid for it so that we can bring it into the light and that it can be circumcised out of our lives. He wants to cut it away. But as long as we keep on whitewashing it, there's no healing. And so you see, therefore, these two things, they do not in fact contradict each other. When it says that if we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth, it means we must choose against ourselves because we now agree with Him. That's what it means. It means that we don't think we have the right to hate. We agree with God that hating is wrong, even though we sense it in ourselves, we still don't agree with it. Now, we won't call it hate, right? We're just a little bit upset, right? We're just a little upset, but it's malice. It wants to hurt. It wants to poke at something and, you know, maybe we have... Maybe we have got it to the point where we're not really even poking. We're just growling, you know? God doesn't want us just to be growling. He wants it dead. He wants to cut it out completely so that what comes forth is true and pure and not pretentious. He doesn't want us to smile with a knife behind our back. It's like, yes, yeah, everything is fine, but here in the back we've got a knife here, and we're ready to, at some point, dagger it in. Suddenly we dig up all the cows and they're all freshly hanging there, and then we run down the gauntlet, right? This is not what God wants. God doesn't want us to just sweep it under the rug. He wants it removed. He wants to cut it out completely. It's called the circumcision of the heart. It's also talked of the mortification of the flesh. It's also talked of as pruning. You know, you will prune the tree that it bear more fruit. There's many ways that the Scripture talks about this, but in essence, it's sanctification, which is the renewing of the mind to the believing of that which God in fact does say, so that the flesh is without excuse, so that the self-life can be destroyed. And that's why we must be willing to confess our sins while we are in the light. See, in the light means God shows us that it's wrong and we agree with Him. It's not God shows us that it's wrong and we run into the dark and make like there's nothing. That's the difference. It's to be caught out and not be afraid. It's to be found to be an error and not to feel that everything is for nothing. I don't know about you, but sometimes when you fail, it just feels like it's just a waste. It's like everything's for nothing. It's like, oh, what does it even matter? Look at me. I'm just such a failure. You see, that is the thing that wants to take you into the dark. It wants to drag you into despair. It wants to drag you into even more unbelief and more compromise. It's not your friend. It is the flesh trying to beguile you, trying to tell you that God isn't really going to help you as much as you thought He's going to. See, it starts biting away at the righteousness of God. It starts poking away at the commitment that God has made towards you and me. And it makes it seem like you're on your own, man. You're going to just have to do this on your own. And that is the darkness, because it brings a cloud between you and God that you can no longer see His smile and perceive His excitement to form His Son in you, but rather a sense of despair, a sense of Hopelessness. This is not God. This is not the Holy Spirit. This is darkness, and we shall not walk in it. We shall refuse to believe the lies that is being spread about our God. We shall continue to believe the truth, what Jesus has told us, that the Father has great delight that you bear much fruit, and that if you ask anything in His name, He will give it to you. These are the things which we must hold on to. We must believe the truth, because it's by these exceeding great and precious promises that we are made partakers. Therefore, it's called the good fight of faith. It's the good fight of faith. Whenever we look back. into the past, and especially where we have failed, we also see despair. We also see unbelief. We also see that we believed our flesh more than we believed God. It's strange how they're always there. And if you haven't seen it, then it's time for you to look and start seeing that the only reason that we are not shining forth the light of God is because we are not beholding His glory. For if we behold His glory, which is His perfection, which is His beauty, which is His righteousness, we are changed as from glory unto glory into His image. It's the change of focus away from us unto Him that makes all the difference. So while we must confess our sins and be aware of our failures, our main focus is actually supposed to be on Him, right? Not on the cup that falls, but on Him. Yes, we know the cup fell. We all heard it, and we all saw it, and we're like, Oh Lord, I dropped the cup again. But yet it's upon His mercies that we are hoping. It's upon His kindness that we are resting. It's upon His covenant that we are firm in our certainty of His love. And this brings joy. This brings peace. This brings self-control. This brings contentment. This makes the Spirit of God bring forth much fruit in our lives, because it allows Him to live and move through us. May the Lord use these things that we would walk in the light as He is in the light. Because then we have fellowship one with another. See? Because then it's like we are looking at each other in the eye. You know, we're not looking away and trying to hide something. We're able to look each other in the eye. There's no reason to be pretentious. There's no reason to think that someone should think more of me than truly I am, because God doesn't want that. And it's right there that the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin. It's right there. He doesn't cleanse us when we are trying to cover it up. He doesn't cleanse us when we are stubborn and unwilling to, in fact, admit that we are in error. But when we are honest and open and just willing to be nothing so that He can be everything, this faith in the Lord Jesus that has come to save a sinner such as me is what saves. True and living faith is not someone who thinks good of himself and just taking a ride on Jesus' merit, but someone that knows that he deserves hell. And God has truly saved him from a very serious, perfect judgment. One might say, yes, but isn't that what happens at the outset of a Christian's life? And indeed it is. But I'm here to tell you that you are going to find contradictions in your Christian life even after. And in the same reason why you began to have favor with God will be the same reason you will always have favor with God, and that is because of the blood of Jesus. Not because you're doing everything right, but because He is doing everything right. May the Lord help us to see the life that is hid in His Son, the light that lighteth every man. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you once again for that light which we can receive from You. As it says, the light of God is spread abroad in our hearts so that we can grow in You. Lord, help us to walk in this light, to not be a slave unto sin, but to be dead unto sin and alive unto You. Because when we are alive unto you, you are our light and you lead us and protect us from snares and traps of the enemy. Help us, Lord, to always keep our eyes steadfast on you and not become afraid and waver because of the trials and temptations around us. Lord, protect us and keep us, as you promise, safe in your fold. And when we wander, lead us back. When we stumble, you have promised that you will always be there to help us, and that we can just simply cling to your cross, to the blood that washes us whiter than snow. Be with us also further through this evening and protect us. Give us all a good night's rest. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.