Let's open with prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that we can come this evening with an expectation, Lord, in our hearts, with faith to hear from you. And we pray, Lord, that you will bless this time, bless these words as we hear them, that in our hearts will grow even more faith, a small mustard seed, Lord, water it, that you may be glorified. We pray that you bless Lyle as he shares with us. May we also be encouraged and endue him with power from on high. I pray in Jesus' name, amen. So our passage this evening is in 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 5 to 6. Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned: from which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling; desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm. But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully; knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, murderers of fathers, murderers of mothers, and for manslayers, for whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, if there be any thing that is contrary to sound doctrine. Now the end of the commandment. So, the Lord has done something. He has spoken something, and it is to achieve something, and that is to bring forth Jesus in you. That's the end of His commandment. That's the objective. He wants to bring forth charity out of a pure heart and a good conscience and faith unfeigned. This is a way of explaining who Jesus is. He's charity out of a pure heart, of good conscience and faith unfeigned. His faith is in His Father. His love is pure. He has a clear conscience. And when you have a conscience that is defiled, that means you allow things into your life that makes you feel guilty before the Lord. It says, For which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain janglings. We started listening to things which, in fact, does not bear the fruit which God is looking for. It does not bring forth the Lord Jesus. It brings forth— Lawless and disobedience. It brings forth murderers and warmongers and man stealers, and it says here, any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine. Sound doctrine is the image of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is sound doctrine. That means the express truth of what God actually wants you to be. See, Jesus is the truth of what God said when He said, Let us make man in our image. That is what He meant. He is exactly that image which God wants you to be in. That is the truth. That is sound doctrine. That is exactly what God wants. And anything that is not exactly that is not sound doctrine. If we have any teaching or idea or thought in our life that gives us the indication that we don't need to be like Him, then this is not sound doctrine. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification. And sanctification implies the work of the Holy Spirit that brings you closer and closer to this sound doctrine. Which is Jesus Christ in you, the hope of glory. God wants to bring forth His Son in you. Our life itself has got so many facets and so many things: how to be a father, how to be a mother, how to be a brother, a sister, a husband, a wife. And every day, how to be that within every day and with every aspect of every day. These are all parts of what it means to be like Him. It's not just how you treat one thing in one moment, but it's a being. It's being someone. And to be that in all things, in all times, is what God wants to do. That is the work of sanctification. Jesus says that He must wash our feet. The washing of the feet is everything during the day, in any time and every circumstance, where sound doctrine, the Lord Jesus, was not coming forth by the power of His Spirit in you, must be washed away, clarified, must be considered and taken into account into obedience to Christ. Every day, we must look at our day. We must look at the things we did and the things we did not do. And we must put up our feet and say, Lord, what did I miss today? And then that must be washed. And then, what did I not do in Your Spirit? And that must be washed. And every day, this way of giving Him a time for accountability, to look through our lives, to circumcise our hearts, this is the work of sanctification. This is what is required. It is a continual accountability to the Holy Spirit of God. Not just what men or other women or men think about you, but what God is in His truth saying about you. There is what matters. Now, in reality, when we bring things to God, clearly He has paid for. it. He has paid for it in full. Our sins have been covered by the blood. This is not a time for giving you chastisement. It's not a time for giving you condemnation. It's a time of cleansing. That means to take away what is dirty, to cut away that does not belong and is unnecessary. It's not a discouraging time. It's an exciting time. The way Jesus illustrated is He takes a towel and a bowl, and He comes to His disciple. He bows down. He makes Himself small, like a servant, to wash His disciples' feet while His disciples are sitting comfortably, nicely on top of chair. His feet is in the bucket. He's washing, rinsing between his toes. It's refreshing. It's not trying to hurt you, trying to make you live a life of guilt. It's to take away the guilt, to give you a clean conscience. See, a good conscience, that you know that God is pleased with you, that you know that He has paid in full. That whatever was the myth is now done and taken out of the way. And tomorrow we're gonna try to live in the Spirit again. And again. And again. We're gonna keep doing that every day until we wake up in His likeness. We won't rest. We keep going, thirsting after this righteousness, of a righteousness that comes from God through faith. Not a righteousness of self-work, self-righteousness, a righteousness that comes from God. God's Word, its objective is to bring forth Jesus in you. This is His objective. When you listen to God's Word and you start feeling despair, and you start feeling you want to quit, and it's too much for you, this is not His objective. His objective is not to bring despair or fear. In fact, the Scripture says He has not given you a spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of a sound mind, power to do His will. This is grace. God has given us grace, and of love and of a sound mind, a mind that is clear, able to comprehend God's will. Able to hear His voice, able to understand what He wants you to do. To become like His Son means to have nothing between you and the Father. That regards face smiling over you. This is to have a faith unfeigned. Charity out of a pure heart, it means a love that does not love because it wants to get, but rather loves because it is loved. This is why Scripture says, His love is what changed me to love others. If you don't know how much God is loving you, it's very hard for you to love other people. If you don't realize how, really how much God loves you, patient with you, kind with you, forgiving you, caring for you, tender about you, then you don't know why you should be like that with others. You feel like, why are you stepped on and they can always get away? So you see how you have then a place of uncertainty of the love of God. Now God has done so many things so that we will no longer be uncertain of His love. He's made it very clear to us through the Gospel, through the message of the Lord Jesus Christ. He made it very clear to us that He loves us. That He does not want anyone to perish, but wants all to be saved and come to the knowledge of Christ. He wants all to come back into what He made them. What is this? His image. He made you to be His temple, a dwelling place of His Spirit, which brings forth His image. This is what you were made for. This is why Jesus is saying, Come to me, you that are heavy laden, burdened, come to me. You see, if the cares and troubles of this world, if it's weighing you down, and you can't get to everything you must do, and you just keep failing, Jesus says, Come to me. He doesn't say, Find a new strategy. He doesn't say, Try another approach. He says, Come to me and learn from me. My yoke is easy, my burden is light. We look at the life of the Lord Jesus and we see someone who, with having done only a few things, changed the world. He only done a few small things and changed the world. But it was the right things, in the right time, and it changed everything. For 30 years, nobody really took notice of him. But then when he started, he walked very precisely, even the whole time of his life, but specifically now recorded for us in the Gospels, how he called his disciples, how he led them, how he taught them, how they went from city to city, everything they did. And he would say things like, I'm doing only what the Father is giving me to do, speaking only what the Father is giving me to speak. This strategic way that the Lord Jesus lived is what made him so immensely successful. for giving me to speak. This strategic way that the Lord Jesus lived is what made him so immensely successful. In our eyes, he looked... He was not winning the crowd's favor. He was not even convincing them of anything much. They only wanted him for their own gain. They didn't realize who he was. Only a handful did. So it looked like his strategy wasn't that good. He didn't have a tremendous success. But yet, when we look back today, we see he was absolutely 100% perfectly successful, even in that which looked like failure at the time was not a failure. And so we are the same place as the Lord today. We are called to live in the same way in obedience to his Spirit. We are called in the same way to listen to his voice and to do strategic things in the right time, within the right moment, to achieve the objectives that God has placed upon our lives. We are in the same position today. This because of the new covenant, where God took our sins and gave us his Son in exchange. So you're no longer alone, ever again, but Emmanuel, God with us. God with us. God is with you, my dear brother, sister. God is with you. You are not alone. You're not facing the challenges of this life alone. The question you should answer is, are you open to hear Him? Are you willing to listen? Are you truly ready to surrender yourself completely to Him so that He can move through your life as He wills, using your hands, using your body as His temple, through which He can move and have His way? This is the encouragement that the Lord is calling us to: that we will not listen to vain janglings that is discouraging our faith, that is teaching us to live in the flesh, to accept our failures because we're just human. We must turn back to the gospel that says God has promised you a promised land, and He will give it to you. Trust Him. He will do it. Don't be afraid at all. Don't be afraid. Even if the failure is there, don't get discouraged. Just shake the dust off yourselves, get up, let him clean your feet, and move on. For he that has begun a good work in you is able and faithful to complete it. He is able to do it for us. And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, verse 12, who has enabled me, for he faithful putting me into the ministry, who was before a blasphemer, a persecutor, injurious, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. This grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant with faith. This grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Jesus Christ. God has poured out exceedingly abundantly above what you can ever ask or think. He's already provided everything. You must believe Him. You must not believe the lies of the enemy, that you can just never be like Jesus because He was just in a different level. This is not the right way of faith. The true way of faith. is to believe that that which God has done in His Son, that which God has done in Paul, that is also what God wants to do in you. This is the sound doctrine. This is sound doctrine. God wants to do it in you. And therefore we believe that Jesus came in the flesh, the flesh the same as that of David, and He lived a life as it behooved Him to be made like unto His brethren in every way, so that we can, in fact, follow Him when He says, Come and follow Me. Now we recognize that He is unique. We recognize that He is the only begotten Son of God. We recognize these things. But we also recognize that He made us in His image from the start. This was His work. This was His plan and the will of His Father. Let us close in prayer. Lord, we thank You once again this evening as we consider these things which You have done, realizing that there is so much noise around us every day. Try to distract us from your soft, gentle voice. Help us to remain focused. Help us to bring our attention back to the word that works within us through your Spirit, so you might, in fact, be glorified through our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.